  Je travaille comme un alchimiste : je verse le liquide rouge sur le liquide bleu, en esperant que ca n'explose pas.
 Ronan's translation.

  Any sufficiently complicated C or Fortran program contains an ad-hoc, informally-specified bug-ridden slow implementation of half of Common Lisp.
 Greenspun's Tenth Rule of Programming

 A part ceux qui ne l ’utilisent (Internet) que pour bander, gagner en bourse et échanger du courrier électronique, qui est prêt à dépenser de l’argent à fonds perdus pour avoir son petit site personnel ? Des tarés, des maniaques, des fanatiques, des mégalomanes, des paranoïaques, des nazis, des délateurs, qui trouvent là un moyen de diffuser mondialement leurs délires, leurs haines, ou leurs obsessions. Internet, c’est la Kommandantur du monde ultra-libéral. C’est là où, sans preuve, anonymement, sous pseudonyme, on diffame, on fait naître des rumeurs, on dénonce sans aucun contrôle et en toute impunité. Vivre sous l’Occupation devait être un cauchemar. On pouvait se faire arrêter à tout moment sur dénonciation d’un voisin qui avait envoyé une lettre anonyme à la Gestapo. Internet offre à tous les collabos de la planète la jouissance impunie de faire payer aux autres leur impuissance et leur médiocrité. C’est la réalité inespérée d’un rêve pour toutes les dictatures de l’avenir.
 Philippe Val

 You know Kyoto isn't about global warming or the environment. It is about tying developed countries hands industrially, while undeveloped countries, like France, have more room to grow.
 an AC (slashdot)

 There are two means of refuge from the miseries of life: music and cats.
 Albert Schweitzer

 People pay money for this CRAP? I can get disk corruption on Linux for free, if that's what I want.
 Nicholas Clark, about HFS+ (we.hates-software.com)

 Never attribute to human stupidity that which can be adequately explained by GNU Libtool.
 Scott James Remnant

 Comparing apples with oranges is perfectly reasonable when you've decided to replace your apples with oranges.
 Juliusz Chroboczek (darcs-users)

 According to Richard Stallman, 1.6.1 is not GPL-compatible, because its license has a choice of law clause. According to CNRI, however, Stallman's lawyer has told CNRI's lawyer that 1.6.1 is "not incompatible" with the GPL.
 python -c 'license()'

 And Jesus said unto them, "And whom do you say that I am?" They replied, "You are the eschatological manifestation of the ground of our being, the ontological foundation of the context of our very selfhood revealed." And Jesus replied, "What?"

 I'll take hard-to-read code over /dev/null for most things...
 Keith Packard (xorg)

 Disclaimer: I work at the reg*.{[hc],sym} like a novice alchemist: I pour the blue liquid on the red liquid.  If it doesn't  blow up on my face, I proceed to turn up the flame under the blue liquid, and so on. I have very little idea of what I am really doing, I just like the pretty colors :-)
 Jarkko Hietaniemi

 ...Now I had improved the program to the point where it would not work at all.
 George Greenstein ("Frozen Star")

 It would be nice to be able to write that kind of thing in the discussion of an academic paper: "It was disappointing that we found no correlation between the use of flouride toothpaste and cancers of the mouth and throat [since a positive result would have got me a paper in the British Medical Journal instead of The Annals of the Royal Society of Bounced Submissions]. Then again, I suppose it isn't actually [because we're not all going to die horribly]."
 Damian Counsell

 Bravely reimplemented by the knights who say "NIH".
 Rik Van Riel

 Gotta love the Mac logics: "Is $FOO broken?" - "Nope, $BAR works. Very few care about $FOO being broken".
 Al Viro, about copying resource forks on Mac OS X (lkml)

 Ooh, mommy, mommy, what I have now doesn't work in this extremely unlikely circumstance, so I'll just throw it away and write something completely new.
 Linus Torvalds

 Either become reasonable or be pepared to be treated as a troll.
 Jörg Schilling, to Alan Cox (lkml)

 I call this approach to hacking 'Mortonomics'. Time has shown that by proposing a really ugly kernel hack to Andrew Morton, inevitably, he rewrites it as god intended it to be.
 Dave Jones (blog)

 Oh, please. Go and fix a bug or something.
 Bas Zoetekouw (debian-devel)

 There is this special biologist word we use for 'stable'.  It is 'dead'.
 Jack Cohen

 Thompson's rule for first-time telescope makers: "It is faster to make a four-inch mirror, then a six-inch mirror, than to make a six-inch mirror."
 (Programming Pearls, Communications of the ACM, September 1985)

 Basically it's not an answer to say "Ah, yes, look at this great language OCaml!" when in practice all you're ever doing is writing C.
 Brandon J. Van Every

 Si quelqu'un comprend ce que j'ai dit, c'est que je me suis mal exprime.
 Jean-Luc Godard

 Quel ennui ! C'est toujours la même histoire ! Quand on a fini de construire sa maison, on remarque qu'on a, sans s'en rend compte, appris en la bâtissant une chose qu'il aurait absolument fallu savoir - avant de commencer. L'éternel et douloureux "trop tard !" - mélancolie de tout ce qui est achevé...
 Friedrich Nietzsche (Par-delà le bien et le mal)

 How good bad music and bad reasons sound when we march against an enemy.
 Friedrich Nietzsche

 The advantage of a bad memory is that one enjoys several times the same good things for the first time.
 Friedrich Nietzsche

 I think you learn to program mostly by programming. The most a teacher can do is suggest interesting paths; for example, by setting interesting problems to solve, or by describing mistakes other people have made.
 Paul Graham

 Competence, like truth, beauty, and contact lenses, is in the eye of the beholder.
 Laurence J. Peter

 Python's syntax succeeds in combining the mistakes of Lisp and Fortran. I do not contrue that as progress.
 Larry Wall (perl6-language)

 As far as the laws of mathematics refer to reality, they are not certain, and as far as they are certain, they do not refer to reality.
 Albert Einstein

 The Pope density of the Vatican is about 2.5/km^2.
 Richard Kettlewell

 <Lisa> By your logic I could claim that this rock keeps tigers away.
 <Homer> Oh, how does it work?
 <Lisa> It doesn't work.
 <Homer> Uh-huh.
 <Lisa> It's just a stupid rock.
 <Homer> Uh-huh.
 <Lisa> But I don't see any tigers around, do you?
 <Homer> ...Lisa, I would like to buy your rock.
 The Simpsons

 Nothing cures insomnia like the realization that it's time to get up.

 The Law, in its majestic equality, forbids the rich, as well as the poor, to sleep under the bridges, to beg in the streets, and to steal bread.
 Anatole France

 > If you use a hammer to tighten a screw, do you also complain about
 > unexpected side effects?
 Well, tightening a screw with a hammer works to some extent. At
 least, it works a lot better than driving in a nail with a screwdriver.
 Jens Schmalzing (debian-powerpc)

 Mes amis, je vous annonce que, ce soir, nous allons recevoir une bonne raclée.
 Jean-Pierre Raffarin, 28 mars 2004 (cité par le Canard Enchaîné, 31/03/2004).

 Je vais vous dire un secret : j'ai des amis intellectuels.
 Jean-Pierre Raffarin (Libération, 09/03/2004)

 People who think they know everything greatly annoy those of us who do.

 Gotta do the right thing in the long run, no matter how much merengue and whipped cream's on the line.
 Dan Sugalski

 #11900 You cannot just paste code with no understanding of what is going on and expect it to work.

 #11901 You can't just make shit up and expect the computer to know what you mean, Retardo!

 #11902 You said it didn't work, but you didn't say what it would have done if it *had* worked.

 #11903 What are you really trying to accomplish here?

 #11904 Who the fuck cares which one is faster?

 #11905 Now is the time in our program where you look at the manual.

 #11906 Look at the error message! Look at the error message!

 #11907 Looking for a compiler bug is the strategy of LAST resort. LAST resort.

 #11908 Premature optimization is the root of all evil.

 #11909 Bad programmer! No cookie!

 #11910 I see you omitted $! from the error message. It won't tell you what went wrong if you don't ask it to.

 #11911 You wrote the same thing twice here. The cardinal rule of programming is that you never ever write the same thing twice.

 #11912 Evidently it's important to you to get the wrong answer as quickly as possible.

 #11913 Gee, I don't know. I wonder what the manual says about that?

 #11914 Well, no duh. That's because you ignored the error message, dimwit.

 #11915 Only Sherlock Holmes can debug the program by pure deduction from the output. You are not Sherlock Holmes. Run the fucking debugger already.

 #11916 Always ignore the second error message unless the meaning is obvious.

 #11917 Read. Learn. Evolve.

 #11918 Well, then get one that *does* do auto-indent. You can't do good work with bad tools.

 #11919 No. You must believe the ERROR MESSAGE. You MUST believe the error message.

 #11920 The error message is the Truth. The error message is God.

 #11921 It could be anything. Too bad you didn't bother to diagnose the error, huh?

 #11922 You don't suppress error messages, you dumbass, you PAY ATTENTION and try to understand them.

 #11923 Never catch a signal except as a last resort.

 #11924 Well, if you don't know what it does, why did you put it in your program?

 #11925 Gosh, that wasn't very bright, was it?

 #11926 That's like taking a crap on someone's doorstep and then ringing the doorbell to ask for toilet paper.

 #11927 A good approach to that problem would be to hire a computer programmer.

 #11928 First get a book on programming. Then read it. Then write the program.

 #11929 First ask yourself `How would I do this without a computer?' Then have the computer do it the same way.

 #11930 Would you like to see my rate card?

 #11931 I think you are asking the wrong question here.

 #11932 Holy cow.

 #11933 Because it's a syntax error.

 #11934 Because this is Perl, not C.

 #11935 Because this is Perl, not Lisp.

 #11936 Because that's the way it is.

 #11937 Because.

 #11938 If you have `some weird error', the problem is probably with your frobnitzer.

 #11939 Because the computer cannot read your mind. Guess what? I cannot read your mind *either*.

 #11940 You said `It doesn't work'. The next violation will be punished by death.

 #11941 Of course it doesn't work! That's because you don't know what you are doing!

 #11942 Sure, but you have to have some understanding also.

 #11943 Ah yes, and you are the first person to have noticed this bug since 1987. Sure.

 #11944 Yes, that's what it's supposed to do when you say that.

 #11945 Well, what did you expect?

 #11946 Perhaps you have forgotten that this is an engineering discipline, not some sort of black magic.

 #11947 You know, this sort of thing is amenable to experimental observation.

 #11948 Perhaps your veeblefitzer is clogged.

 #11949 What happens when you try?

 #11950 Now you are just being superstitious.

 #11951 Your question has exceeded the system limit for pronouns in a single sentence. Please dereference and try again.

 #11952 In my experience that is a bad strategy, because the people who ask such questions are the ones who paste the answer into their program without understanding it and then complain that it `does not work'.

 #11953 Of course, this is a heuristic, which is a fancy way of saying that it doesn't work.

 #11954 If your function is written correctly, it will handle an empty array the same way as a nonempty array.

 #11955 When in doubt, use brute force.

 #11956 Well, it might be more intuitive that way, but it would also be useless.

 #11957 Show the code.

 #11958 The bug is in you, not in Perl.

 #11959 Cargo-cult.

 #11960 So you threw in some random punctuation for no particular reason, and then you didn't get the result you expected. Hmmmm.

 #11961 How should I know what is wrong when I haven't even seen the code? I am not clairvoyant.

 #11962 How should I know how to do what you want when you didn't say what you wanted to do?

 #11963 It's easy to get the *wrong* answer in O(1) time.

 #11964 I guess this just goes to show that you can lead a horse to water, but you can't make him drink it.

 #11999 You are a stupid asshole. Shut the fuck up.
 Mark-Jason Dominus's Good Advice #

 Every old idea will be proposed again with a different name and a different presentation, regardless of whether it works.
 RFC 1925

 Anyway... thanks for your thoughtful response. Had I posted the message I did to a Java group, I would surely have at least 500 messages kindly informing me that their procmail now filters all my mail to /dev/null. John Goerzen, after saying what's wrong in Ocaml in [ocaml-beginners]

 It is impossible to travel faster than the speed of light, and certainly not desirable, as one's hat keeps blowing off.
 Woody Allen

 A prayer in a public school! God has no place within these walls, just like facts have no place within organized religion!
 The Simpsons

 I don't want to achieve immortality through my work. I want to achieve immortality through not dying.
 Woody Allen

 You see, Officer Graham is a very clever man. A very clever man. He's so clever, he managed to be at least two hundred and fifty years (and friends, that's how long ago Thomas Bayes died) behind the state of the art of text categorisation but at the same time, Officer Graham told us exactly the best way to do all these things and so everyone thought that what Officer Graham was doing was something original and new, and nobody realised that this had all been done by a poor Englishman not two hundred and fifty years ago.
 Simon Cozens

 Not CP, not multithreading can make programmer happy, but CPAN can.
 Alexander Danilov (Caml-list)

 Which probably means we have to force bitshifts to +< and +>, so we can tell the difference between >>+< and >>+<< and >>+<<<. It's almost getting to the point where we want to allow disambiguating underscores in operators: >>_+<_<<. Alternately we give up on <<>> as a qw// replacement and allow spaces: >> +< <<. 
 Larry Wall, p6-l, on the choice of core language operators

 In fact, in Linux we did try C++ once already, back in 1992. It sucks. Trust me - writing kernel code in C++ is a BLOODY STUPID IDEA.
 Linus Torvalds

 Independent thinkers tend to ALWAYS have someone not agreeing with them. It's the non-thinkers that always come in legions.
 John Callari

 Hrm. To reinvent the wheel or paint the bikeshed -- that is the question.
 Dan Sugalski (p6-i)

 Q: What's tiny and yellow and very, very, dangerous?
 A: A canary with the super-user password.

 XML is syntactic arsenic.
 Patrick Logan

 Structure is nothing if it is all you got. Skeletons spook people if [they] try to walk around on their own. I really wonder why XML does not.
 Erik Naggum (comp.lang.lisp)

 The more interesting your types get, the less fun it is to write them down!
 Benjamin Pierce

 Don't you hate code that's not properly indented? Making it part of the syntax guarantees that all code is properly indented!
 Guido van Rossum (Slashdot)

 [...] Inheritance is a very flexible mechanism. It's possible and in fact fairly common to misuse it, but that's not a reason to distrust it systematically as seems to have become the fashion.
 Bertrand Meyer (ITWorld.com)

 Job security begins with C. It has no memory management model except what grows in the programmer's head. This programmer cannot be fired.
 Mark-Jason Dominus (EFNet #perl, 19 July 1999)

 Somebody somewhere came up with the concept of googlipsism - sort of
 like solipsism, but the idea is that if Google doesn't know about
 something, it can't exist. I tried to remember who it was, so I could
 quote them correctly, but Google couldn't find "googlipsism". Oh
 dear. I know what that means.
 Simon Cozens

 Tell you what. Let's just issue a mandatory warning at the startup of
 every Perl script that says:
 "Don't be stupid."
 Larry Wall

 Not only does Jesus save, but he makes nightly off-site backups.

 I am nit-picking the nitpicker and you boys better hope to
 never be caught by me spelling "megaHertz" as "megahertz."
 Purl Gurl (clpm)

 "Interactive" is a synonym for "manual".
 Charlie Gibbs

 I don't even think this is anyone's fault.
 How about Tim Berners-Lee? Have you blamed him for anything lately? No?
 Well, here's a perfect opportunity!
 Peter Da Silva (hates-software.all)

 When your hammer is C++, everything begins to look like a thumb.
 Steve Haflich (comp.lang.c++)

 Any sufficiently complicated C or Fortran program contains an ad hoc
 informally-specified bug-ridden slow implementation of half of Common Lisp.
 Philip Greenspun

 Premature optimization is the root of all evil.
 Donald E. Knuth

 The most important thing in the programming language is the name. A
 language will not succeed without a good name. I have recently invented
 a very good name and now I am looking for a suitable language.
 Donald E. Knuth

 First learn computer science and all the theory. Next develop a
 programming style. Then forget all that and just hack.
 George Carrette
 
 If you don't think carefully, you might think that programming is just
 typing statements in a programming language.
 Ward Cunningham

 Undoubtedly, someone can learn OOP from reading code - after all Alan
 Kay (partly) learned OO by deciphering an 80 page Simula program
 thinking it was Algol. However, most people are not in the same league
 as Alan.
 Bjarne Stroustrup

 The idea that a manager or a complete novice in a language can come even
 close to comprehending a significant program because some inherent
 virtue of a particular language is nothing more than marketing hype and
 self-delusion.
 Bjarne Stroustrup

 You can write obscure code in any language, and significant programs in
 a language you have only superficial knowledge about are always
 unreadable - especially if prejudice prevent you from actually trying to
 overcome notational barriers. A major part of readability is simply
 familiarity and experience.
 Bjarne Stroustrup

 There are only two kinds of programming languages: those people always
 bitch about and those nobody uses.

 Peut-on rire du malheur des autres ? Ca depend... Si le malheur des
 autres est rigolo, oui.
 P. Geluck

 What the hell does that mean? I shouldn't have to read a manual about
 LISP to fix the fucking thing BEFORE I CAN EVEN USE IT.
 Earle Martin in hates-software.all

 If there is a God, you are an authorized representative. Do whatever you
 deem necessary and appropriate.
 (Packet Storm Security)

 I particularly dislike classes with a lot of get and set functions. That
 is often an indication that it shouldn't have been a class in the first
 place. It's just a data structure. And if it really is a data structure,
 make it a data structure.
 Bjarne Stroustrup

 Whenever people agree with me I always feel I must be wrong.
 Oscar Wilde

 Un con riche est un riche,
 Un con pauvre est un con.
 (d'apres Laffitte)

 L'idealisme a les mains pures, il est dommage qu'il n'ait pas de mains.
 Lautreamond

 Which bombs would Jesus drop?

 "PRAISE THE LORD!":
 Used when something good happens by attributing it to the Lord, like
 getting a new car or getting out of the hospital. It is never used,
 though, if someone dies or a plane crashes and all the passengers are
 killed. This is only used when the Lord does good stuff.
 www.greywolves.com

 "Angle-grinder Man is the only wheel-clamp and speed-camera vigilante
 that we ever use."
 The Duchess of York (www.anglegrinderman.com)

 I never "yell" at anyone here. I am sweet, nice, sugar and spice.
 Purl Gurl (clpm)

 Of course, on the system *I* administrate, vi is symlinked to ed.
 Emacs has been replaced by a shell script which 1) Generates a syslog
 message at level LOG_EMERG; 2) reduces the user's disk quota by 100K;
 and 3) RUNS ED!!!!!!
 Patrick J. LoPresti

 Media players are a simple concept. Files comes in, choose codec based
 on magic, play file through codec. IT'S REALLY NOT THAT DIFFICULT.
 Simon Wistow (ates-software.all)

 Y'know, it's getting to the point where I'm ready to start stopping
 random strangers on the street and asking them "When's the last time you
 patched your operating system?", and when they answer with any number
 more than 24 hours ago, I'm gonna bust 'em in the chops.
 Huey Callison

 Less discussion! More hate!
 Sabrina Downard (hates-software.all)

 I'm sorry, but nobody announcing themselves as
 =?ISO-8859-1?Q?Ask_Bj=F8rn_Hansen?= has any right to bitch in a thread
 about MIME.
 Simon Cozens in hates-software.all

 Tassilo> You did not really killfile Uri, did you?
 I sure did.
 Abigail in clpm

 In a reflective language it doesn't take a Leonardo class Perl hacker to
 produce a flakey implementation of "switch", it's something a casual
 user of the language can do reliably and routinely.
 Peter da Silva in hates-software.all, about Perl 5

 I was wasting countless processor cycles redrawing a 2d grid of
 characters. That's when I stepped up to a truly responsive system - the
 line editor! Its the shit, man! I can get 1,400,000 frames per second on
 my Pentium4/3200mhz with Geforce4 Pro Titanium Ultra. It is RESPONSIVE!!!
 ArmorFiend
