message de baylor@ihatebaylor.com sur comp.ai.games, 06/11/2003

titre: How do you test?

i've spent the last few years writing software that is supposed to act
like a human. To determine whether i got the software right, i create
a test bed of problems, have humans and and the software take the test
and then compare the human answers to the software. The closer the two
sets of responses, the more i believe i designed the software
properly. i assume that's how other people are testing their simulated
humans, but i don't personally know anyone doing these types of
experiments or writing these types of systems
 
For the work i'm doing, i run into a consistent set of challenges:
 
1. Human Consistency. For the experiment to work, the humans have to
be mostly in agreement with each other. If the humans give wildly
different answers, i don't know what to use as a "right answer" (note
that answer can be any number of things; in my current work
implementing a matching law approach to item selection, the right
answer is a choice distribution). Uncooperative humans have caused me
to redesign several test sets. i've also found some differences in how
children and adults approach problems that led to different answers
depending on how the experiment was designed
 
2. Problem Representation. For many tasks, the computer needs to use
the same inputs as the humans or else the test results/software won't
hold up in production. For some experiments, like the situation
analysis i did spatial layout of units played a big role, i had to
abstract certain cues/features out because i didn't know how to
properly represent them so that a human and a computer saw the same
thing. On the bright side, i've learned a lot about which cues people
pay attention to when solving problems. On an unrelated note, i've
also had problem designing experiments where the humans don't bring in
outside knowledge (ex - if they can choose a flamingSword to fight a
rockMonster, subjects might reason about the relationship of fire to
rock when choosing, something the software won't do; i'm not sure
whether to design around that or to switch focuses and try to capture
that process)
 
3. Scope. For me to get humans to agree on an answer, the test cases
normally have to be pretty constrained and specific. For example, my
current experiment test requires a hero to pick from one of three
weapons to fight a monster under specified and carefully controlled
conditions after which the fight completes uninterrupted (i'm using a
variable ratio schedule). This is obviously very different than the
much larger area of an NPC playing a game
 
4. Test Bed. Because of the constrained conditions and need to control
all the variables, most of my work so far has been on paper. i print
off situations and hand them to humans. i've considered building an
Unreal mod to generate situations and capture responses but that takes
a fair bit of work compared to drawing diagrams in Visio and that
extra work hasn't seemed necessary yet. The need to control variables
also makes turn based games seem more appropriate since the data
becomes discrete rather than continuous which i think makes getting
human consistency easier. i am toying with the idea of making some
kind of testing software to make running experiments easier, but i
haven't decided yet whether such an objective is practical. Also, it's
possible such software already exists. i have considered MouseLab for
experiments that need to capture response time
 
How are other people handling this?
 
-baylor
